It’s not just the sangria that’s deliciously refreshing in Spain.


The most refreshing part of the Spanish culture is that is it unapologetically absorbed in just
that, the Spanish culture. They love their food and everything it represents. It is unique in flavour
as well as the manner in which it is prepared and enjoyed. In the cities and towns I had the
pleasure of visiting, there is restaurant after restaurant serving unbelievably delicious and
simple Spanish food and there is limited influence from other cultures.  This is stunningly
obvious with just the sight of the big yellow M causing a little cringe with the knowledge that is it
so out of place, and if you do happen to stumble upon a lonely sushi shop in your travels, it is
almost guarenteed that the crowds will not be inside, but at the tapas restaurant next door. I
LOVED this and found it so refreshing!


Our trip included a pretty significant road trip North to South of Spain and back again. Anywhere
else in the world I wouldn’t dream of eating anything other than lollies at a truck stop when
stopping to get fuel, but the quality of the food at the rundown and dingy looking roadside
restaurants was almost on par with the what the cities had to offer.


The food is deceptively simple and I don’t know how we (in Australia anyway) get it so wrong
when we try to duplicate it. It is quite possible that we just try to complicate things that don’t
need complicating. The food is fresh, simple, and served in a way that is perfect for sharing. The
most common plate we saw and probably the most commonly ordered was a simple plate of
Jamon Iberico. Thinly sliced cured ham. That’s it, no sauce, no spice, just ham. To be fair, the
process of raising the specific type of pig and then the curing process is very involved and the
meat is often cured for up to 2 years, but the flavour is out of this world and requires no
accompaniments like any plate in Australia would be slathered with. When ordering a plate of
the Jamon, you would also order a plate of thinly sliced cheese. Just as simple, just as
delicious.


What other simple things are on the menu? Tomato salad: tomato, salt, parsley. How can they
serve just tomato? Because the tomatoes have flavour!! They actually taste of tomato. Copious
amounts of fresh seafood that haven’t been played with. Olives, croquettes, fried green
peppers...I could go on and on. No entree, main, dessert, just a number of various plates to be
shared and enjoyed while drinking with great friends.


And on the topic of drinking, if you order a round of drinks at a bar, restaurant, or cafe, they
wouldn’t even think of letting you drink without eating!! It took us a while to work out who was
ordering us all the extra food while we were drinking, with plates of deliciousness arriving with
every round. The kitchen will send out a plate of something with each round of drinks. Often just
potato chips with the first round of drinks, and then possible to ensure you stick around for the
long­haul, the plates become more and more interesting and delicious. Some of the best food
we ate was the plate that the chef sent with the drinks. What an excellent little addition!!


The food was easily one of the most enjoyable aspects of Spain, and it has inspired me to
search the town for authentic Spanish cuisine now I know what it actually looks like.
