I have never had ANY interest in video games, or had any understanding of why people love
and obsess over them. But, my interest was well and truly piqued when i heard of the proven
and potential health benefits that video games can offer!


This week, after some strong encouragement, I listened to the Jane McGonigal interview on the
Tim Ferriss podcast. I am passing on this strong encouragement and I have no doubt you will
find it as fascinating as I did. Jane McGonigal is an American game designer who uses
alternative reality games to predict and improve real­life and improve real­life problems.
McGonigal created the Superbetter, a game that improves resilience to improve or regain
health, after she suffered a traumatic brain injury.


Through this podcast, we also hear McGonigal explain the incredible potential benefits of
playing Tetris. A recent study shows that playing Tetris immediately after witnessing a traumatic
event meant a reduced number of flashbacks over the next week. Post­traumatic­stress-
syndrome is categorised by the sometime debilitating flashbacks and involuntary recollections of
a traumatic event. Playing Tetris during a certain timeframe after witnessing an event is thought
to block the memory formation as Tetris demands the use of our visual cortex.


The results of this study did not show that a memory of the traumatic event was not formed, just
that it decreased the involuntary recollection ie. the unwanted flashbacks. This study was also
conducted for witnessing events, not for experiencing them, however this is not to say that
similar results might not be found if studies were carried out for experiencing traumatic events.
Now, where my interest lies is in the potential benefits this type of action could bring to parents
of children in hospital, or parents who witness significant harm of life threatening scenarios for
their children. I have witnessed, and studies confirm, the trauma parents experience after their
child has been unwell or experienced pain. A simple example is a parent of an oncology patient.
The amount of pain and suffering such a parent witnesses is enormous, or continuous, that it
can be only natural that the pain be transferred in the form of PTSD.


If there was a very simple, and very low­risk way of helping parents cope in an incredibly difficult
situation I think it would be invaluable. If there is one thing parents have in hospital, it is time,
time to sit alone with their own thoughts and memories, while the world continues as normal on
the outside. I wonder the benefits of these parents utilising something as simple as Tetris in
these quiet times they are sitting beside their (sleeping) children, and how it could help them
deal with their experiences once they have left the hospital environment?
