This idea has come from 2 places and much reflection.

Firstly, I am a Nurse. A registered paediatric nurse, but for a couple of reasons I am not
currently nursing.There were parts of nursing I loved, but the clinical nursing, the things you
study for, and are trained to perform, were not the parts I loved. The part I loved was my time
with my patients and their parents. The time I could sit, listen, and try to understand their
situation. I loved their stories and I had a spare shoulder for many parents and their tears on so
many of my night shifts. I wanted to do everything in my power for these families who were
struggling and so lost, however, what I wanted to do, never fit in with the hospital’s plans,
budgets, or protocols. Some of the things I had to tell my families went against what I believed
and I started to resent the job, so I left. It has been 2 years now and I still think of those parents,
and my older patients, the ones who could comprehend their situations and I wonder, what
could be, and should be available for these people whose lives have been turned upside down,
to relieve some of their stress, to improve their situation even by 1%, to help them focus or to
redirect their focus to any glimmer of positivity and possibility. How to simply live with change?

Secondly, the idea of staying healthy through travel has stemmed from personal development,
and unfortunately dealing with moving to a new country, terribly! My move from Brisbane to
Vancouver was terrible and my time there was negatively impacted as a result. My move from
Vancouver to Montreal was much improved, I had tools and techniques for coping, and the
difference it has made has been incredible. For future, inevitable moves, I will have an even
larger skill set to draw from, so bring it on! Though moving to a new country is not the same as
going on a holiday or travel for pleasure, there is still a preparedness that is lacking in both
situations. People, women especially, tend to diet from one holiday to the next, which leads to
the unfortunate situation of living a perpetual diet. Finding health through change will cut this
cycle, living life and seeing the world is about so much more than a number on a scale, so a
change in focus starts here.

TRAVEL

In the last 3 years I have been to: Norfolk Island, Thailand, numerous Aussie beach trips,
CANADA, Seattle, Whistler, Banff, Montreal, Toronto, Niagara Falls, London, New York. In this
coming year alone, if all goes to plan, from Montreal I will be heading to Banff, Dallas, Brisbane,
Spain, Sydney x 2, and back again. How is that even possible? Right now it isn’t, but where
there’s a will there’s a way will hopefully stand true for me this year and work its magic.
Like everything else in my life, it seems i’ve done travel poorly, I have done it well, and with the
use of certain tools and techniques I believe I will be able to do it even better in the future. I
have in the past, like many others, had a trip coming up in my calendar and changed the way
I’m eating or training to be ‘bikini ready’, or be in the best shape I can be for my holiday. This
ultimately leads to a constant, year after year cycle of trying to lose weight only to reverse
everything in the couple of weeks I am away, feeling horrible when I return, and ‘having’ to start
again. What a ridiculous distraction from seeing the world, an experience that so many people
of the world will never be lucky enough to enjoy. It absolutely blows my mind, it absolutely does
not work, hence the constant cycle part, and there absolutely is another way of doing things.

I do like to think I can’t be the only one who has done this, think of how busy gyms are for
January as people return from their holidays, or how many (uneffective) quick fix diets that start
popping up in news feeds and ads that are available for people prior to the commencement of
holidays. It isn’t good for your body, nor is it good for your mind, and I can guarantee that when
you are in a new city, or new country where you don’t know a single person, that not a single
person will know or care if you have just quickly lost 5kg. What they may however care about is
how much of their culture you absorb, or how much of their country you are willing to see and
admire.

There are many techniques I have learnt over the last couple of years that should be used to
break the cycle and shift the focus from weight to a year round, constant, overall well being and
health. Achieving this brings with it so much energy and clarity of thought so that experience of
travel can be fully appreciated.

So what do you do to keep some sort of normalcy when you are having the time of your life and
traveling the world...or even just having a weekend away in a hotel down the road just for a
quick break? Anchor your change. Find something that is familiar for you, a healthful habit or
something very familiar in your everyday life that will assist you in staying grounded, and help
you remember that remaining healthy is the best way to unlock all your potential energy and in
turn have the best experience possible,

We can call it a comfort habit and it can be absolutely anything, anything that you relate to your
own wellness. A song, a nutrition habit that you do first thing in the morning like a big drink of
warm lemon water, or an exercise, meditation, or journalling.

For me, I use running. Maybe not the easiest habit to get started, but if you develop this habit
while at home in day to day life it is an invaluable hobby to take with you anywhere in the world.
It is free. You can do it wherever, whenever, rain hail or shine. Soon you learn that running can
be an incredible source of energy, and the better you fuel your body, the easier the running
becomes. Eventually you won’t have to think about it, you will just naturally source foods that
your body needs, and this will work when at home, as well as while you travel.

CAREGIVERS

As a paediatric nurse I have seen countless families thrown into the turmoil that is being told
your child is unwell. I have worked in two main areas, one ward was for chronic or longer term
illnesses, an oncology ward, and the other saw every kind of disease process, short and long
term, and was an infectious and general medical ward. No matter the reason, if you are in a
hospital with your child, whether it be for a whiff of oxygen to see them through the night, or for
imperative, life saving medications and procedures, everything else that is happening in the
outside world goes out the window. Your role of happy go lucky parent changes immediately to
caregiver and your personal experience will differ dramatically to the family who is in the very
next room. So what do you do?

I nursed, and became quite close to some families who were in hospital for an incredible
number of days, the hospital became ‘home’. It was home only because it was the 4 walls and
roof in which these families, or some of the family members would spend the majority of their
time, not because the hospital was in any way even close to their family home, but it was a
necessity. The facilities were different, 1 room, 1 bathroom, and that bathroom was for the child,
NOT for the parent, there was a share bathroom down the hall for parents. The food was
different, and in my personal opinion, it was crap, but not to worry, unless you were a breast
feeding Mother, you didn’t get to eat the crap, you got to fend for yourself. The daily routine was
different, unpredictable, and certainly not determined by the parent, not for themselves and not
for their own child, it was determined by hospital protocol, by procedure lists and severity of
other cases as well as their child’s. Your child might usually sleep at the very time a nurse had
to come in and do routine things, just so they could check them off their checklist that is on the
wall for all to see. The child might be sleeping just when someone else needs your room and
bed, so with 2 seconds notice, you need to move.

Everything is different!!
But in this new world where everything is different, it will also seem that everything is the same.
You have been told your child is sick. From that very first moment you get as much information
from your doctor about the illness. You then get your phone, your ipad, your laptop and you find
every article, every forum, every website that has anything to do with that particle diagnosis and
you work out what you are up against. You call your family, or your closest and carefully
selected friends and you share the news. The news slowly spreads and other people start to
hear what is going on. If they call, they will ask about the child, about the diagnosis. Whoever
comes to visit is there for your child, that is what you will talk about. If a nurse comes into the
room, it will be to check on your child, do procedures, document and ask question, about your
child.

You wouldn’t have it any other way, EVERYTHING that can be done, must be done for your
child. But, you can only go on this one tracked path for so long, before caregiver burnout kicks
in and your focus diminishes and your energy levels, physically and mentally and completely
depleted.

There are many, little things you can do if you find yourself in this situation, a long term stay in a
hospital with a sick child. You want to make a plan, and you want to fit in a many time efficient
strategies that will help you maintain, or regain energy which in turn will provide you with bigger
energy reserves to draw from each and every day. The most important thing is nutrition, but it
also very hard. Friends and family will be asking to help, so fight your urge to say ‘I’m fine’, and
ask them to bring you some food, something nutritious, something you usually eat at home and
this will keep your body in a familiar routine. If you have the opportunity to cook meals at the
hospital, great! This is rare however, and even if facilities are available, it will be tricky, so just
try to keep one meal, or one item your familiar item, boiled eggs, nuts, fruit, vegie sticks and
dips. Something fresh, something easy. Stick to one nutritious snack or meal a day, and just let
the rest of your meals happen as they happen, knowing that you are contributing in at least a
small way to fuel your body well.

Concept of resilience implies an ability to withstand or recover from a traumatic event. Nobody
expects anyone to be OK from the outset.
Not only coping with the overarching change of diagnosis, but also the consistent changes that
are now the nature of caring for a child who is unwell.
There is close to no accessible information available for caregivers. The most I could find was a
paragraph at the bottom of a page on various hospital website, but it is hidden under the
information for the children. This paragraph tends to offer good advice but doesn’t give any
actionable steps as to how to go about ‘looking after yourself’ which I beleive everyone already
understands is what the caregiver needs to do. It is just, how do you do that?
There is degree of balance that is required in order to achieve this state of wellbeing and growth
of resilience. The areas are physical, mental, and emotional and if one of these areas is out of
balance it unfortunately shows in the other areas.

So what are some the things that can become unbalanced in this transition into caregiver in the
physical sector?
­sleep
­exercise
­nutrition
­hormones
­

Why do I care about change? Why do I want to change it?
Firstly, I am a Nurse. A registered paediatric nurse, but for a few reasons I am not currently nursing.
There were parts of nursing I loved, but the clinical nursing, the things I studied and trained for, were not
the parts I loved.

The part I loved was my (very limited) time with my patients and their families. The time I could sit, listen,
and try to understand their situation. I loved their stories and I had a spare shoulder for many parents and
their tears on so many of my night shifts. I wanted to do everything in my power for these families who
were struggling and feeling lost, however, what I wanted to do, never fit in with the hospital’s plans,
budgets, or protocols. Some of the things I had to tell my families went against what I believed and I
started to resent the job, so I left.

It has been 2 years now and I still think of those parents, and my older patients, the ones who could
comprehend their situations and I wonder, what could and should be available for these people whose
lives have been turned upside down, to relieve some of their stress, to improve their situation even by
1%, to help them focus or to redirect their focus to any glimmer of positivity and possibility. How to help
them simply live with change and unlock the body's potential energy in a time where they just want to fall
apart?

Secondly, on a different spectrum altogether, the idea of staying healthy through travel has stemmed from
a bit of a personal failure... moving to a new country, and unfortuantely doing it terribly! My move from
Brisbane to Vancouver was terrible and my time there was negatively impacted as a result. My move from
Vancouver to Montreal was much improved. I had tools and techniques for coping, and the difference it
has made has been incredible. For future, inevitable moves, I will have an even larger skill set to draw
from, and in time, share.

Though moving to a new country is not the same as going on a holiday or travel for pleasure, there is still
a preparedness that is lacking in both situations. People, women especially, tend to diet from one holiday
to the next, which leads to the unfortunate situation of living a perpetual diet. Finding health through
change will cut this cycle. Living life and seeing the world is about so much more than a number on a
scale, so a change in focus starts here.


Travel

In the last 3 years I have been to:
Norfolk Island, Thailand, numerous Aussie beaches, Vancouver, Seattle, Whistler, Banff, Montreal,
Toronto, Niagara Falls, London, New York.
In this coming year alone, if all goes to plan, from Montreal I will be heading to:
Banff, Dallas, Brisbane, Spain, Sydney x 2, and back again. How is that even possible? Right now it isn’t, but where there’s a will there’s a way...hopefully.
It is so hard for people to form healthy habits while at home, and even harder to make them stick
when you travel. I have in the past, like many others, had a trip coming up in my calendar and
deliberately changed my eating and training habits to be ‘bikini ready’, or be in the best shape I
can be for that holiday. This ultimately leads to a constant, year after year cycle of trying to lose
weight only to reverse everything in the couple of weeks I am away. I feel horrible when I return,
and vow to start again, and again, and again.

What a ridiculous distraction from seeing the world, an experience that so many people of the
world will never be lucky enough to enjoy. It absolutely blows my mind, it absolutely does not
work. It isn’t good for your body, nor is it good for your mind, and I can guarantee that when you
are in a new city, or new country where you don’t know a single person, that not a single person
will know or care about the number on your scale says. What they may care about is how much of
their culture you absorb, or how much of their country you are willing to see and admire.
There are many techniques I have learnt over the last couple of years that should be used to break
the cycle and shift the focus from weight, to overall health and well­being. Achieving this brings
with it so much energy and clarity of thought so that the experience of travel can be fully
appreciated.

So what do you do to keep some sort of normalcy when you are having the time of your life and
traveling the world? Anchor your change. Find something that is familiar for you, a healthful habit
from your everyday life that will assist you in staying grounded, and help you remember that
remaining healthy and balanced is the best way to unlock all of your potential energy and in turn
have the best experience possible. It can be absolutely anything anything that you relate to your
own wellness. A song, a nutrition habit like warm water with lemon first thing in the morning, an
exercise, meditation, or journalling. It will set the tone for the rest of the day.

For me, I use running. Maybe not the easiest habit to get started, but if you develop this habit
while at home in day to day life it is an invaluable hobby to take with you anywhere in the world. It
is free. You can do it wherever, whenever, rain hail or shine. Soon you learn that running can be
an incredible source of energy, and the better you fuel your body, the easier the running becomes.
Eventually you won’t have to think about it, you will just naturally source foods that your body
needs for fuel, and this will work when at home, as well as while you travel. So I start my day with
a run, knowing I have started the day doing something positive for my body, then I go on to
explore and enjoy.

Anchor your change.


Caregivers

As a paediatric nurse I have seen countless families thrown into the turmoil that is being told your
child is unwell. I have worked in two main areas, one ward was for chronic or longer term
illnesses, an oncology ward, and the other was an infectious diseases ward and saw every kind of
disease process, short and long term. No matter the reason, if you are in a hospital with your
child, whether it be for a whiff of oxygen to see them through the night, or for imperative, life
saving medications and procedures, everything else that is happening in the outside world goes
out the window. Your role of happy­go­lucky parent changes immediately to caregiver and your
personal experience will differ dramatically to the family who is in the very next room. So what do
you do?

I nursed, and became quite close to some families who were in hospital for an incredible number
of days, the hospital became ‘home’. It was home only because it was the 4 walls and roof in
which these families would spend the majority of their time, not because the hospital was in any
way even close to their family home. The facilities were different, 1 room, 1 bathroom, and that
bathroom was for the child, NOT for the parent, there was a share bathroom down the hall for
parents. The food was different, and in my personal opinion, it was crap. Not to worry though,
unless you were a breast feeding Mother, you weren't even offered that crap, you got to fend for
yourself. The daily routine was different, unpredictable, and certainly not determined by the parent
for their child or even for themselves. The ever changing routine was determined by hospital
protocol, by procedure lists and the severity of other cases as well as their child’s. The child
might usually sleep at the very time a nurse had to come in and do routine things, just so they
could check them off their checklist that was on the wall for all to see. The child might be sleeping
just when someone else needs the room and bed, so with 2 seconds notice, everyone needs to
wakeup, and move.

Everything is different!!
But in this new world where everything is different, it can also seem that everything is the now
same. A parent has just been told child is sick. From that very first moment they scramble to get
as much information from their doctor about the illness. They then get their phone, ipad, laptop
and find every article, every forum, every website that has anything to do with that particular
diagnosis and they work out what they are up against. The parent will call family, or their closest
and carefully selected friends and share the news. The news slowly spreads and other people
start to hear what is going on. If anyone calls, they will ask about the child, about the diagnosis.
Whoever comes to visit is there for your child, that is what they will talk about. If a nurse comes
into the room, it will be to check on the child, do procedures, document and ask question, about
the child.
But honestly, you wouldn’t have it any other way, EVERYTHING that can be done, must be done
for your child. The reality is though, you can only continue on this one tracked path for so long
before caregiver burnout kicks in and your focus diminishes and your energy levels, physical and
emotional are completely depleted.

There are many little things you can do if you find yourself in this situation, particularly, a long-
term stay in hospital with a sick child. You want to make a plan, and you want to fit in as many
simple time efficient strategies that will help you maintain, or regain energy. This in turn will
provide you with bigger energy reserves to draw from each and every day. The most important
thing initially is nutrition, but in so many health institutions it is also one of the hardest things to
control.

Friends and family will be asking to help, so fight your urge to say ‘I’m fine’, and ask them to bring
you some food, something nutritious, something you usually eat at home and this will keep your
body in a familiar routine. If you have the opportunity to cook meals at the hospital, great! This is
rare however, and even if facilities are available, it will be tricky, so just try to keep one meal, or
one item your familiar item ­ boiled eggs, nuts, fruit, vegie sticks and dips. Something fresh,
something easy. Stick to one nutritious snack or meal a day, and just let the rest of your meals
happen as they happen, knowing that you are contributing in a small but effective way to fuel your
body well. If you start with something as small as 20% per day, you will be able to build on this as
you adapt in other ways to the change, but you have set yourself an important foundation and
given yourself an anchor to stay well through change.

10 Tips to surviving the longhaul flight

1. Hydration: I am one for chronically dehydrating myself. I’ve never been one to think long
enough about drinking water to link my less than ideal symptoms to simply being
dehydrated...why isn’t 2 sips of water when I brush my teeth enough to sustain me?
Since I’ve started running I have improved this bad habit ten­fold out of necessity, and
just from becoming more aware of my body and what it’s screaming to me. So, with an
inevitable longhaul flight on the horizon, I decided to prepare about a week out. It’s no
secret that a plane, no matter how long you’re in it, is drying, and also not
2. Natural relaxant, over a sleeping aid. I know there are some people who just need to
take a sleeping tablet within seconds of boarding in an attempt to forget that they ever
had to do a horrid, longhaul flight, but I am not one of those people. For starters, as a
former shift working nurse, I don’t believe you can ever wake up feeling refreshed after
sleeping using a sleep aid, and secondly, I have a fear I’m going to do something
ridiculously embarrassing while in my fake sleep. So, this trip I used Valerian, and I have
continued to use it to combat some bad jetlag. While it definitely doesn’t put you to
sleep, it definitely relaxes you and it turn I feel like that relieves the very uncomfortable
and agitating feeling of restlessness. That feeling of being so tired but being in a
sardined type of position not conducive to sleep. It allows you to more comfortably rest if
not sleep. But, of course with anything new, try it out at home before using it in a
different environment. For some it can have the opposite effect and induce anxiety.
3. Be in your best shape the week leading up to the flight. Simply avoid any of your known
triggers in the week or few days leading up to your flight. For me, inflammatory foods are
sugars, caffeine, gluten and other grains. Also, for me these things work against me in
an accumulative sort of a way, so while I didn’t avoid them altogether, I remarkedly
decreased consumption in the week leading up to my flight and listened more carefully
to what my body needed.
4. Choose your food for the plane. I have no diagnosed food allergies or intolerances.
There are certain foods that I avoid after doing my own trial and error to what works for
MY body. Surprise surprise, gluten is one of the things I avoid. If I eat it, it really is no big
deal, but when I don’t eat it, I feel great and I think that is a big deal. So, prior to
boarding my plane to Oz, I ticked, almost accidentally, the gluten free option for meals
on the plane. I honestly had forgotten that I’d even been looking at meal options online,
so it was a very pleasant surprise when prior to getting even any glimpses of the food
trolley on the plane I was brought my own little package of food. In fact, it wasn’t little, it
was a huge package, and the packages kept coming all the way through the flight.
Granted there were quite a few nasties that despite being gluten free I still wouldn’t eat,
there really were lots of options and they were just fine! I happily ate them and I happily
exited the plane with remarkably less bloat than I usually do. So, take a second to think
about it before boarding. Is there anything you can take with you for a flight, or anything
you can order onboard, to ensure a happy/happier belly?
5. Change expectations. When you board a longhaul flight you automatically assume it’s
going to be horrendous, that it’s going to be uncomfortable, you’ll be stuck between 2
people you don’t want to be stuck between, that you’ll delayed, and that you are going to
be dead tired when you land. Not the most positive way of commencing a trip. Don’t
expect anything, and don’t assume anything, and you won’t be disappointed. Your body
can cope with much more than your mind tells you it can. If you’re tired, you’re tired,
that’s all. You will eventually get to lay down and rest and will eventually jump back into
your routine, but for now, just be grateful for where you are and what you’re doing.  .
6. Limit or avoid the screen. Just as you want to exercise your body on a flight, exercise
your eyes. The seat set­up in economy is not ideal for avoiding eye­strain, poor lighting,
small screen that’s unavoidably too close to your eyes, already dry atmosphere. If you
must use the entertainment system provided, just ensure you regularly break it up. Close
your eyes, read a book, write in a journal, talk to someone...craaaaazy idea.
7. Bathroom squats. I do this every time I travel, be it plane, train, car. Every time I use the
bathroom I do a quick 20 squats. It sounds a little disgusting, but there is no need to
touch any extra surfaces if you are just squatting. If you are drinking the ridiculous
amount of water that you should be drinking while flying, then you will be doing an
impressive number of squats, but they’ll be spaced out well enough that it won’t feel so
torturous.
8. If alone, think of the people you can meet, rather than how long you will be alone. I am
quite an anxious traveller, and the thought of doing my first solo trip was quite daunting.
Actually, this year already I have travelled alone to Calgary, Dallas, and Australia so that
is quite some lonesome travel time. I didn’t think I had the most welcoming resting face,
but I must, because there hasn’t been a single trip where I haven’t been approached.
Yes, sometimes by a creepy old guy, but all so far have been completely harmess and
for the most part probably just lonely. I have realised that give someone the chance you
can hear some truly incredible stories and reasons why people are travelling. If you don’t
want to talk, chuck in some earphones, but just be open to how different everyone’s
stories are that have led them to the same destination as you.
9. See the bigger picture. Travelling is stressful! I know. But keep in mind, if there are
delays or hold ups, while they are annoying it is not the end of the world. There is noone
sitting in a room somewhere single­ing you out and thinking ‘YES!! I’m going to ruin
YOURS and only your holiday plans!!’ For me to get from Montreal to Brisbane, it took 3
flights and 35 hours flying time. From Montreal, I boarded and disembarked my first
plane to New York THREE times before we actually got to fly, and wow, did it bring out
some horrendous and truly childish behaviour in many grown men and women. It is so
easy to play the victim in that situation, so the majority of people did, even though the
delays were due to weather. But for the most part, people are holidaying!! Something we
should be grateful for in the first place. Most of the passengers were just trying to get to
New York, they had no connections or nowhere else to be, but they were so agitated at
the thoguht of just getting hoem a few hours late. Here I was thinking there was no way I
was ever going to make all 3 connections to get home, when my very first flight was 5
hours delayed. But I was so excited to be going and I knew that there would be other
options if this didn’t work out and I knew that I was so lucky to be going anywhere in the
first place, I stopped myself from getting agitated and I can guarentee I had a happier
flight that the majority of other travellers that day.So in the face of delays, take a second
to think about the person sitting next to you and the fact there situation might be worse
than yours, they may not be travelling for happy reasons, put your situation into
perspective.
10. Babywipes. So simple! Not something I would suggest adding to everyday life, but
especially for me, being a very sweaty clammy person, baby wipes made such a
difference. Especially just to freshen up just as I was leaving the plane so that I could
happily do an arms­up­in­the­air type of wave and hug with my family at the airport and
not be too worried about it being almost 48 hours since my last shower!!
outrageously


inevitably

http://authoritynutrition.com/how­to­win­an­argument­with­a­nutritionist/

"When I first started running, I was so embarrassed I'd walk when cars passed
me. I'd pretend I was looking at the flowers!"
I used to be someone who was uncomfortably out of breath after 30 seconds of trying to run.
Even when I was doing gymnastics, a run warm­up would almost kill me, and at that time I was
in good shape. It was embarrassing and frustrating, so I just resigned to the fact that I just
wasn’t, and never would be a runner. Anyone who could run further than 5km was a bit of a
superhero in my eyes.

Running is so natural though. A child in a playground doesn’t walk. The only time you will see a
child walking is when they’ve been specifically told ‘DO NOT RUN’, and even in that situation
they do the funny power walk/shuffle and skip...just enough for them to proclaim 'I’m NOT
running’. So what happens when we grow up? We just lose that ability to run? No, I don’t think
so.

Life happens and we slow down, we lose some of that natural fitness. We then watch people
who are conditioned to run, on the T.V, at the gym, on the street, and we feel like we should be
able to run at their speed and with their endurance. We go and try it, and after 30 seconds of
going at silly speed, we are out of breath, coughing, sore, frustrated and embarrassed. And
that’s the end of that!! 'I’ll try again in another 5 years when motivation strikes up,and see if
anything has changed.’

SLOW DOWN!! Go as slow as you can go! Fast enough to have the feet turning over, slow
enough that you can chat with your buddy who is hopefully on the journey with you. Slow, slow,
slow. You might be able to walk faster than your initial run. Who cares!?

Your body will adapt, it will get stronger. This slow will eventually gain pace, minus all of the
associated negatives that we feel when we go out too hard in the beginning. And don’t give a
second thought to what other runners will think when they see you on the street. They don’t
know if you’ve been going for 2 minutes or 2 hours, and they will generally be in their own zone.
meaning they don’t notice you at all, much less what speed you are going at.
Give it a go! Slow, slow, slow!
