2 years ago I wasn't able to run for more than a couple of minutes without getting winded and needing to walk. 2 years ago I thought anything below +20 degrees was freezing and I had no ability to even imagine temperatures below zero, or what they might feel like. 
 But, move forward 2 years and I have completed a half marathon in -30 degree, windy, snowy weather. I agree with everyone who has commented on how crazy it is to run in such conditions, for so long, but that makes me even more proud to have accomplished this, not so small, feat!

The Running Room is the host for the event across a number of different provinces in Canada and the Montreal Hypothermic Half Marathon was held yesterday, 15/3/2015.

Compared to the Rock n Roll series, this event did seem quite lacking in organisation and any sort of pre and post race communications...social media communications would go a long way! The race kit pick up was outside of Montreal and very difficult to reach by public transport, so luckily they did have race morning kit pickup options. My running buddy and I arrived an hour and a half prior to the start time in case of hold up, but there really weren't enough people for queues to be an issue. The kit was quite simple, your race number, a pair of gloves and a neck warmer.

What do they say about not trying anything new on race day? Well, the gifted gloves looked great compared to the woolen mittens that I had been training in so I didn't think twice about wearing them instead. But as soon as we got outside into the weather, my hands froze, painfully froze, to the point of losing the ability to open my jacket pocket and find my other gloves to swap into. I should have stuck with what I knew, and what I knew worked...lesson learned.

It really was frightfully cold. -30 degrees with windchill, and the wind was brutal! As we were doing laps of a small island off Montreal, there were times when the wind was behind us and it was easy to forget the sensation of it whipping through your body, but then we would make a slight turn and it would hit us again with full force. Thankfully, there was no fresh snow falling, and the sun was shining. The paths were however very snowy after a couple of days of pretty consistent snow fall. I was surprised that the course hadn't been cleared a bit more, but I guess it's unrealistic to expect volunteers to venture out in the crazy weather, just because some crazy runners decided it would be a good idea to run in it. 
 The course itself was fairly easy. There was one tiny hill at the end of each lap that by the end of 20km seemed like the steepest mountain imaginable, but it was not. There were 4 or 5 water stations offering water, and a sports drink. We chose not to stop at any of the stations, but with so few participants there was definitely no increased traffic at the stations like there can be at the bigger races. There were about 4 or 5 bathrooms around the course as well which were evenly spaced and well marked. We also didn't require any pitstops (luckily, undressing would have been a marathon in itself) but I did note that they were actual facilities, not port-a-pots...always a bonus.

I had heard about the great brunch that they provide post race, but I wasn't impressed. Maybe we just got there too late, but there was no warm food options like I had expected. And for someone trying to eat a no grains no sugar diet, the ONLY option was fruit, and a green been salad. The rest was sandwiches, pasta, cous cous salads, pastries and cakes. I guess this is still the array of food that most people want post race, but all I felt like was bacon and eggs, which I got when I got home. So, I was quite happy to have not paid a ridiculous amount of money for an extra brunch ticket so that my boyfriend could join me.

Having said all that, it really was an amazing experience, and not an experience I'm thinking of doing again, so, a once in a lifetime type thing. I never liked to run with other people, but it was excellent running with a friend this time. We always have great chats in training runs, but we were very quiet this time around, only offering words of encouragement when we sensed the other needed it. We both definitely needed that external motivation for this tough run. No PR for me, coming in around 2hr 18min, but all conditions considered, as well as some under-training thrown in there, I think our time was excellent!!

Running this race really made it seem like we could do anything. Train for it and your body knows what to do.